doc/configuration.md, before:

# How To configure Tapyrus Signer Network

This document describes how to configure tapyrus-signer.

After setting up with [How to set up new Tapyrus Signer Network](./setup.md), We can start Tapyrus Signer Network.

`tapyrus-signerd` has two configure files. Both can be specified the path and the name with command line arguments.

* **signer.toml**: This is a configuration file for general purpose to pass the arguments to `tapyrus-signerd`.
* **federations.toml**: This is a data file, which hosts federation parameters.

You can set arguments that can be set on signer.toml is also able to set as command-line arguments. 
You can get the details of command-line arguments on `-h` option like below:

```
$ tapyrus-signerd -h
node
Tapyrus signer node

USAGE:
    tapyrus-signerd [FLAGS] [OPTIONS]

FLAGS:
        --daemon              Daemonize the Tapyrus Signer node process.
    -h, --help                Prints help information
    -q, --quiet               Silent mode. Do not output logs.
        --skip-waiting-ibd    This flag make signer node don't waiting connected Tapyrus full node finishes Initial
                              Block Download when signer node started. When block creation stopped much time, The status
                              of Tapyrus full node changes to progressing Initial Block Download. In this case, block
                              creation is never resume, because signer node waits the status is back to non-IBD. So you
                              can use this flag to start signer node with ignore tapyrus full node status.
    -V, --version             Prints version information

OPTIONS:
        --to-address <TO_ADDRESS>         Coinbase pay to address.
    -c, --config <CONFIG_FILE_PATH>       Load settings from this file. when defined both in file and command line args,
                                          then command line args take precedence. [default: signer_config.toml]
        --federations-file <FILE>         The path to TOML file of the federations of the chain.
        --log-file <file>                 Specify where log file export to. This option is enable when the node fot
                                          '--daemon' flag. If not, logs are put on stdout and stderr.
    -l, --log <log_level>                 Set the log level. [possible values: error, warn, info, debug, trace]
        --pid <file>                      Specify pid file path. This option is enable when the node got '--daemon'
                                          flag.
    -p, --public-key <PUBLIC_KEY>         Public key of the signer who host this tapyrus-sigenrd. example:
                                          03831a69b8009833ab5b0326012eaf489bfea35a7321b1ca15b11d88131423fafc
        --redis-host <HOST_NAME or IP>    Redis host.
        --redis-port <PORT>               Redis port.
    -d, --duration <SECs>                 Round interval times(sec).
        --rpc-host <HOST_NAME or IP>      Tapyrus Core RPC endpoint host.
        --rpc-pass <PASS>                 Tapyrus Core RPC user password.
        --rpc-port <PORT>                 Tapyrus Core RPC endpoint port number. The default is `2377`. Tapyrus-Core
                                          default RPC ports are here. For production chain: `2377`. For development
                                          chain: `12381`.
        --rpc-user <USER>                 Tapyrus Core RPC user name.
```  

## signer.toml

This configuration file is for general settings about `tapyrus-signerd` process behavior.
This is an example file.

```toml
[general]
round-duration = 60
round-limit = 15
log-quiet = true
log-level = "info"
daemon = true
pid = "/path/to/tapyrus-signer.pid"
log-file = "/path/to/tapyrus-signer.log"
skip-waiting-ibd = true

[signer]
to-address = "1Co1dFUN..."
public-key = "033cfe7fa..."
federations-file = "/path/to/federations.toml"

[rpc]
rpc-endpoint-host = "127.0.0.1"
rpc-endpoint-port = 2377
rpc-endpoint-user = "user"
rpc-endpoint-pass = "pass"

[redis]
redis-host = "127.0.0.1"
redis-port =  6379
```

Here describe each item above.

### [general] section

`[general]` section is a set of settings for the application.

* `round-duration` is round-robin duration time(sec).
This is optional. The default duration is 60 sec.
if you want more slowly or quickly block creation, then set more big/small duration time.
* `round-limit` is time limit for the communication in each round. If the communications for rounds
spends time more than round limit, the round would be regarded as a failure round and the next round would be started. This is optional, default is 15 sec.
* `log-quiet` is set `true` to silent of log report.
This is optional, default false
* `log-level` is Log Level.
selectable values are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn` or `error`.
This is optional, default value `info`.
* `daemon` is a flag to run node as a daemon process. Set true, then the node runs as a daemon.
* `pid`
Specify the pid file path. This option is enabled when the node got '--daemon' flag.
* `log-file`
Specify where log file export to. This option is enabled when the node got '--daemon' flag.
If not, logs are put on stdout and stderr.
* `skip-waiting-ibd` is a flag make signer node don't waiting connected Tapyrus full node finishes Initial Block 
Download when signer node started. When block creation stopped much time, The status of Tapyrus full node changes to 
progressing Initial Block Download. In this case, block creation is never resume, because signer node waits the status 
is back to non-IBD. So you can use this flag to start signer node with ignore tapyrus full node status.
This is optional, default false.

### [signer] section

`[signer]` section is a set of settings for the consensus algorithm used in Tapyrus Signer/Core Network.

* `to-address`
This is required. 
This address is used for coinbase transaction outputs in blocks which is proposed by the signer.
* `public-key`
This is required. This specifies the signer's public key, who hosted the node.
The public key format is compressed hex string.
* `federations-file`
This is required. This specifies the path to the TOML file of the federations of the chain.

### [rpc] section

`[rpc]` section is a set of settings for RPC connection to the Tapyrus Core node.

* `rpc-endpoint-host`
This is optional.
Tapyrus Core RPC endpoint hostname. The default value is `127.0.0.1`.
* `rpc-endpoint-port`
This is optional. 
This is the Tapyrus Core RPC endpoint port number.
The default is `2377` (production chain).
Tapyrus-Core default RPC ports are here. 
For production chain: `2377`. For development chain: `12381`.
* `rpc-endpoint-user`
This is optional.
This is the Tapyrus Core RPC user name for authentication.
This is required if you set a username to your Tapyrus Core RPC Server.
There is no default value.
* `rpc-endpoint-pass`
This is optional.
This is the Tapyrus Core RPC password for authentication.
This is required if you set a password to your Tapyrus Core RPC Server.
There is no default value.

### [redis] seciton

`[redis]` section is a set of settings for Redis connection.

* `redis-host`
This is optional. 
This is Redis Server hostname or IP Address.
The default value is `127.0.0.1`.
* `redis-port` 
This is optional.
This is Redis Server port number, which tapyrus-signerd wants to connect to. 
The default value is `6379`.

## federations.toml

This file is a data file for federation parameters. 
You must put federation parameters into this file when you want to startup a tapyrus-signerd.
And you must set the path to `federations.toml` as `federations-file` argument.
You can use the following way to specify the path.
* `--federations-file` command-line argument 
* `federations-file` item in `[signer]` section on `signer.toml`.

This is an example, which has two federation parameters. 
The scenario of this case is that the chain starts with the first federation parameters whose `block-height` is 0.
Then the chain would change the federation to the second one from 100 block height. 

```toml
[[federation]]
block-height = 0
threshold = 3
aggregated-public-key = "030d856ac..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02785a891f323acd6cef...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "02d111519ba1f3013a7a...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]

[[federation]]
block-height = 100
threshold = 2
aggregated-public-key = "030acd6af9..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]
```

Here are descriptions for each item.

* `block-height`
This is required.
This is the block height where the federation would be enabled. 
Tapyrus Signer Network(TSN) produces a block that has Aggregate public key in their xfield when the height of the block is one before the federation block height.
There is an exception, which is a genesis block. A genesis block always has Aggregate public key.
* `threshold`
This is optional.
This is the threshold the federation requires what number of agreements to produce block proofs.
The threshold must be greater than and equal to two-three of federation members count. 
This item should not specify if the signer is not a member of the federation.
* `aggregated-public-key`
This is required.
This is the public key, which can be used to verify block proofs.
This public key is aggregate of all federation member's public keys.  
* `node-vss`
This is optional.
Verifiable Secret Share and commitments from all signers in the federation.
This field may be empty when the signer is not a member of the federation.
This item should not specify if the signer is not a member of the federation.
See also [Tapyrus signer network parameters](./setup.md#tapyrus-signer-network-parameters).

Here describe some `federations.toml` examples for particular scenarios.

### Scenario 1: The signer is a member of the first federation of the chain.

The signers who are a member of the first federation of the chain must set the first federation parameters into their `federations.toml`.
If the federation has five members, and the threshold is 3, then the `federations.toml` would be like below.

```toml
[[federation]]
block-height = 0
threshold = 3
aggregated-public-key = "030d856ac..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02785a891f323acd6cef...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "02d111519ba1f3013a7a...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]
```

If you don't have Node VSSs and Aggregate public key, you should follow steps in [Generate Aggregate public key and Node secret share for Tapyrus-signer network](./setup.md#generate-aggregate-public-key-and-node-secret-share-for-tapyrus-signer-network)

## Scenario 2: The signer is out of the federation member from future block height.

Here assume the current block height of the chain tip is somewhere among 0 to 98.
The signer is a member of the current federation.
The federation is scheduled to transition to the new federation from 100 height.

```toml
[[federation]]
block-height = 0
threshold = 3
aggregated-public-key = "030d856ac..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02785a891f323acd6cef...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "02d111519ba1f3013a7a...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]

[[federation]]
block-height = 100
aggregated-public-key = "030acd6af9..."
```

After generating 99 height block proof, the signer can stop its own tapyrus-signerd.

## Scenario 3: The signer joins the federation from future block height.

Here assume the current block height of the chain tip is somewhere among 0 to 98.
The signer is not a member of the current federation.
The federation is scheduled to transition to the new federation from 100 height.

```toml
[[federation]]
block-height = 0
aggregated-public-key = "030d856ac..."

[[federation]]
block-height = 100
threshold = 2
aggregated-public-key = "030acd6af9..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]
```

Before generating 100 height block proof, you should startup your tapyrus-signerd daemon. 

If you don't have Node VSSs and Aggregate public key for the federation you would join, you should follow steps in [Generate Aggregate public key and Node secret share for Tapyrus-signer network](./setup.md#generate-aggregate-public-key-and-node-secret-share-for-tapyrus-signer-network)

## Scenario 4: The signer is a member of the current federation and would be a member of the changed federation in future height.

Here assume the current block height of the chain tip is somewhere among 0 to 98.
The signer is a member of the current federation.
The federation is scheduled to transition to the new federation from 100 height.
The signer is a member of the next federation.

```toml
[[federation]]
block-height = 0
threshold = 3
aggregated-public-key = "030d856ac..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02785a891f323acd6cef...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "02d111519ba1f3013a7a...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]

[[federation]]
block-height = 100
threshold = 2
aggregated-public-key = "030acd6af9..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]
``` 

If you don't have Node VSSs and Aggregate public key for the new federation, you should follow steps in [Generate Aggregate public key and Node secret share for Tapyrus-signer network](./setup.md#generate-aggregate-public-key-and-node-secret-share-for-tapyrus-signer-network)

## Start Signer Node

To start Tapyrus Signer process,

```
/path/to/bin/tapyrus-signerd -c /path/to/signer.toml
```

Commit message:

add documentation for max-block-size and signature in federations.toml

doc/configuration.md, after:

# How To configure Tapyrus Signer Network

This document describes how to configure tapyrus-signer.

After setting up with [How to set up new Tapyrus Signer Network](./setup.md), We can start Tapyrus Signer Network.

`tapyrus-signerd` has two configure files. Both can be specified the path and the name with command line arguments.

* **signer.toml**: This is a configuration file for general purpose to pass the arguments to `tapyrus-signerd`.
* **federations.toml**: This is a data file, which hosts federation parameters.

You can set arguments that can be set on signer.toml is also able to set as command-line arguments. 
You can get the details of command-line arguments on `-h` option like below:

```
$ tapyrus-signerd -h
node
Tapyrus signer node

USAGE:
    tapyrus-signerd [FLAGS] [OPTIONS]

FLAGS:
        --daemon              Daemonize the Tapyrus Signer node process.
    -h, --help                Prints help information
    -q, --quiet               Silent mode. Do not output logs.
        --skip-waiting-ibd    This flag make signer node don't waiting connected Tapyrus full node finishes Initial
                              Block Download when signer node started. When block creation stopped much time, The status
                              of Tapyrus full node changes to progressing Initial Block Download. In this case, block
                              creation is never resume, because signer node waits the status is back to non-IBD. So you
                              can use this flag to start signer node with ignore tapyrus full node status.
    -V, --version             Prints version information

OPTIONS:
        --to-address <TO_ADDRESS>         Coinbase pay to address.
    -c, --config <CONFIG_FILE_PATH>       Load settings from this file. when defined both in file and command line args,
                                          then command line args take precedence. [default: signer_config.toml]
        --federations-file <FILE>         The path to TOML file of the federations of the chain.
        --log-file <file>                 Specify where log file export to. This option is enable when the node fot
                                          '--daemon' flag. If not, logs are put on stdout and stderr.
    -l, --log <log_level>                 Set the log level. [possible values: error, warn, info, debug, trace]
        --pid <file>                      Specify pid file path. This option is enable when the node got '--daemon'
                                          flag.
    -p, --public-key <PUBLIC_KEY>         Public key of the signer who host this tapyrus-sigenrd. example:
                                          03831a69b8009833ab5b0326012eaf489bfea35a7321b1ca15b11d88131423fafc
        --redis-host <HOST_NAME or IP>    Redis host.
        --redis-port <PORT>               Redis port.
    -d, --duration <SECs>                 Round interval times(sec).
        --rpc-host <HOST_NAME or IP>      Tapyrus Core RPC endpoint host.
        --rpc-pass <PASS>                 Tapyrus Core RPC user password.
        --rpc-port <PORT>                 Tapyrus Core RPC endpoint port number. The default is `2377`. Tapyrus-Core
                                          default RPC ports are here. For production chain: `2377`. For development
                                          chain: `12381`.
        --rpc-user <USER>                 Tapyrus Core RPC user name.
```  

## signer.toml

This configuration file is for general settings about `tapyrus-signerd` process behavior.
This is an example file.

```toml
[general]
round-duration = 60
round-limit = 15
log-quiet = true
log-level = "info"
daemon = true
pid = "/path/to/tapyrus-signer.pid"
log-file = "/path/to/tapyrus-signer.log"
skip-waiting-ibd = true

[signer]
to-address = "1Co1dFUN..."
public-key = "033cfe7fa..."
federations-file = "/path/to/federations.toml"

[rpc]
rpc-endpoint-host = "127.0.0.1"
rpc-endpoint-port = 2377
rpc-endpoint-user = "user"
rpc-endpoint-pass = "pass"

[redis]
redis-host = "127.0.0.1"
redis-port =  6379
```

Here describe each item above.

### [general] section

`[general]` section is a set of settings for the application.

* `round-duration` is round-robin duration time(sec).
This is optional. The default duration is 60 sec.
if you want more slowly or quickly block creation, then set more big/small duration time.
* `round-limit` is time limit for the communication in each round. If the communications for rounds
spends time more than round limit, the round would be regarded as a failure round and the next round would be started. This is optional, default is 15 sec.
* `log-quiet` is set `true` to silent of log report.
This is optional, default false
* `log-level` is Log Level.
selectable values are `trace`, `debug`, `info`, `warn` or `error`.
This is optional, default value `info`.
* `daemon` is a flag to run node as a daemon process. Set true, then the node runs as a daemon.
* `pid`
Specify the pid file path. This option is enabled when the node got '--daemon' flag.
* `log-file`
Specify where log file export to. This option is enabled when the node got '--daemon' flag.
If not, logs are put on stdout and stderr.
* `skip-waiting-ibd` is a flag make signer node don't waiting connected Tapyrus full node finishes Initial Block 
Download when signer node started. When block creation stopped much time, The status of Tapyrus full node changes to 
progressing Initial Block Download. In this case, block creation is never resume, because signer node waits the status 
is back to non-IBD. So you can use this flag to start signer node with ignore tapyrus full node status.
This is optional, default false.

### [signer] section

`[signer]` section is a set of settings for the consensus algorithm used in Tapyrus Signer/Core Network.

* `to-address`
This is required. 
This address is used for coinbase transaction outputs in blocks which is proposed by the signer.
* `public-key`
This is required. This specifies the signer's public key, who hosted the node.
The public key format is compressed hex string.
* `federations-file`
This is required. This specifies the path to the TOML file of the federations of the chain.

### [rpc] section

`[rpc]` section is a set of settings for RPC connection to the Tapyrus Core node.

* `rpc-endpoint-host`
This is optional.
Tapyrus Core RPC endpoint hostname. The default value is `127.0.0.1`.
* `rpc-endpoint-port`
This is optional. 
This is the Tapyrus Core RPC endpoint port number.
The default is `2377` (production chain).
Tapyrus-Core default RPC ports are here. 
For production chain: `2377`. For development chain: `12381`.
* `rpc-endpoint-user`
This is optional.
This is the Tapyrus Core RPC user name for authentication.
This is required if you set a username to your Tapyrus Core RPC Server.
There is no default value.
* `rpc-endpoint-pass`
This is optional.
This is the Tapyrus Core RPC password for authentication.
This is required if you set a password to your Tapyrus Core RPC Server.
There is no default value.

### [redis] seciton

`[redis]` section is a set of settings for Redis connection.

* `redis-host`
This is optional. 
This is Redis Server hostname or IP Address.
The default value is `127.0.0.1`.
* `redis-port` 
This is optional.
This is Redis Server port number, which tapyrus-signerd wants to connect to. 
The default value is `6379`.

## federations.toml

This file is a data file for federation parameters. 
You must put federation parameters into this file when you want to startup a tapyrus-signerd.
And you must set the path to `federations.toml` as `federations-file` argument.
You can use the following way to specify the path.
* `--federations-file` command-line argument 
* `federations-file` item in `[signer]` section on `signer.toml`.

This is an example, which has two federation parameters. 
The scenario of this case is that the chain starts with the first federation parameters whose `block-height` is 0.
Then the chain would change the federation to the second one from 100 block height. 

```toml
[[federation]]
block-height = 0
threshold = 3
aggregated-public-key = "030d856ac..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02785a891f323acd6cef...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "02d111519ba1f3013a7a...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]

[[federation]]
block-height = 100
threshold = 2
aggregated-public-key = "030acd6af9..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]
```

Here are descriptions for each item.

* `block-height`
This is required.
This is the block height where the federation would be enabled. 
Tapyrus Signer Network(TSN) produces a block that has Aggregate public key in their xfield when the height of the block is one before the federation block height.
There is an exception, which is a genesis block. A genesis block always has Aggregate public key.
* `threshold`
This is optional.
This is the threshold the federation requires what number of agreements to produce block proofs.
The threshold must be greater than and equal to two-three of federation members count. 
This item should not specify if the signer is not a member of the federation.
* `aggregated-public-key`
This is optional. But either `aggregated-public-key` or `max-block-size` is required.
This is the public key, which can be used to verify block proofs.
This public key is aggregate of all federation member's public keys.  
* `max-block-size`
This is optional. But either `max-block-size` or `aggregated-public-key` is required.
This is the maximun size of the blocks that tapyrus-core network is allowed to create.
* `node-vss`
This is optional.
Verifiable Secret Share and commitments from all signers in the federation.
This field may be empty when the signer is not a member of the federation.
This item should not specify if the signer is not a member of the federation.
See also [Tapyrus signer network parameters](./setup.md#tapyrus-signer-network-parameters).
* `signature`
This is required.
This is the threshold signature of the federation to validate an xfield (`aggregated-public-key` `max-block-size`) change. This is generated using _sign_ and _computesig_ commands. The commands allow signing xfield or block.
This is not required in the genesis block. i.e. federation with block-height 0. In all other federations the signature is verified and oly then the xfield is updated in tapyrus network.

Here describe some `federations.toml` examples for particular scenarios.

### Scenario 1: The signer is a member of the first federation of the chain.

The signers who are a member of the first federation of the chain must set the first federation parameters into their `federations.toml`.
If the federation has five members, and the threshold is 3, then the `federations.toml` would be like below.

```toml
[[federation]]
block-height = 0
threshold = 3
aggregated-public-key = "030d856ac..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02785a891f323acd6cef...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "02d111519ba1f3013a7a...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]
```

If you don't have Node VSSs and Aggregate public key, you should follow steps in [Generate Aggregate public key and Node secret share for Tapyrus-signer network](./setup.md#generate-aggregate-public-key-and-node-secret-share-for-tapyrus-signer-network)

## Scenario 2: The signer is out of the federation member from future block height.

Here assume the current block height of the chain tip is somewhere among 0 to 98.
The signer is a member of the current federation.
The federation is scheduled to transition to the new federation from 100 height.

```toml
[[federation]]
block-height = 0
threshold = 3
aggregated-public-key = "030d856ac..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02785a891f323acd6cef...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "02d111519ba1f3013a7a...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]

[[federation]]
block-height = 100
aggregated-public-key = "030acd6af9..."
```

After generating 99 height block proof, the signer can stop its own tapyrus-signerd.

## Scenario 3: The signer joins the federation from future block height.

Here assume the current block height of the chain tip is somewhere among 0 to 98.
The signer is not a member of the current federation.
The federation is scheduled to transition to the new federation from 100 height.

```toml
[[federation]]
block-height = 0
aggregated-public-key = "030d856ac..."

[[federation]]
block-height = 100
threshold = 2
aggregated-public-key = "030acd6af9..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]
```

Before generating 100 height block proof, you should startup your tapyrus-signerd daemon. 

If you don't have Node VSSs and Aggregate public key for the federation you would join, you should follow steps in [Generate Aggregate public key and Node secret share for Tapyrus-signer network](./setup.md#generate-aggregate-public-key-and-node-secret-share-for-tapyrus-signer-network)

## Scenario 4: The signer is a member of the current federation and would be a member of the changed federation in future height.

Here assume the current block height of the chain tip is somewhere among 0 to 98.
The signer is a member of the current federation.
The federation is scheduled to transition to the new federation from 100 height.
The signer is a member of the next federation.

```toml
[[federation]]
block-height = 0
threshold = 3
aggregated-public-key = "030d856ac..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02785a891f323acd6cef...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "02d111519ba1f3013a7a...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]

[[federation]]
block-height = 100
threshold = 2
aggregated-public-key = "030acd6af9..."
node-vss = [
  "02472012cf49fca573ca...",
  "02ce7edc292d7b747fab...",
  "03831a69b8009833ab5b..."
]
``` 

If you don't have Node VSSs and Aggregate public key for the new federation, you should follow steps in [Generate Aggregate public key and Node secret share for Tapyrus-signer network](./setup.md#generate-aggregate-public-key-and-node-secret-share-for-tapyrus-signer-network)

## Start Signer Node

To start Tapyrus Signer process,

```
/path/to/bin/tapyrus-signerd -c /path/to/signer.toml
```
