# How To configure Tapyrus Signer Network

This document describes how to configure tapyrus-signer.

After setting up with [How to set up new Tapyrus Signer Network](./setup.md), We can start Tapyrus Signer Network.

We use some parameters introduced in setup documentation.

- `static_private_key`: A private key on the secp256k1 elliptic curve.
- `static_public_key` : A public key corresponding to `static_private_key`.
- `aggregated_public_key`: An aggregated public key generated by using setup command `tapyrus-setup aggregate`
- `node_secret`: A secret value generated by using setup command `tapyrus-setup aggregate`

## Configuration

To configure for signer node, we use signer_config.toml.

The following are mandatory settings to start nodes.
For all settings including optional ones, see [sample file](https://github.com/chaintope/tapyrus-signer/blob/master/tests/resources/signer_config_sample.toml)

### [general] section

`[general]` section is a set of settings for application.

- There is no mondatory settings in this section.

### [signer] section

`[signer]` section is a set of settings for consensus algorithm used in Tapyrus Signer/Core Network.

- `publickeys`: Public keys of all signers that participate this Tapyrus Signer Network. Specify in a compressed public key format.
- `privatekey`: Private key of this signer node. Specify in an extend WIF format. Use same key with `static_private_key` generated in setting up.
- `threshold`: The number of signers required to sign block. It should be less than the number of all signers.
- `aggregated_public_key`: Aggregated public key generated in setting up.
- `node_secret`: Secret value generated in setting up.

### [rpc] section

`[rpc]` section is a set of settings for rpc connection to tapyrus core node.

- There is no mondatory settings in this section.

### [redis] seciton

`[redis]` section is a set of settings for redis.

- `redis_host`: Redis Server host name or IP Address.

## Start Signer Node

To start tapyrus signer process,

```
/path/to/bin/tapyrus-signerd -c /path/to/signer-config.toml
```
